so what about the autopsy now that's
really the for an assassination
investigation or any murder
investigation that's probably the single
most important set of evidence that you
have not always but typically that's the
case now the doctors who perform the
autopsy there were three doctors
responsible for the autopsy
I took their depositions under oath in
the National Archives this was the first
time that they had had a systematic
deposition taken so there's a legal
inquiry there's a court stenographer
there the original autopsy material is
in front of them this is the first time
they have ever seen the original autopsy
material in terms of the the face sheet
the the record since the time of the
assassination it was the first time they
had ever seen the autopsy photos so they
were present when the photos were taken
but they had not been shown the photos
before the doctors who performed the
autopsy believed and claimed that
President Kennedy had been shot from
behind and the version that the the
doctors in Bethesda hospital gave was
exactly the same as the Warren
Commission supported the the Warren
Commission there are some there are a
few little problems here that we need to
ask some questions about and there
they're more than they're more than a
few but I'll just mention two of them
when I took the the deposition of dr.
Humes under oath I went through the
record fairly systematically with him
and we finally got to the question of
the original autopsy so there's a
version of the autopsy that is in the
National Archives handwritten he had
very good handwriting I envied his
handwriting so he has this original
version of the autopsy I asked him a
series of questions because I had some
suspicions and he admitted under oath
for the first time that the version that
is in the National Archives the original
version was not the original version he
had written another one before hand
he had burned the original version he
never told the Warren Commission he had
never told the American public that he
admitted that under oath I said why did
you burn it I did not think for a minute
I would get a correct answer but he said
the president's blood was on it and I
thought it was gruesome and I asked him
I already asked him but I reminded him
that he said that he wrote the autopsy
while he was at home sitting in front of
his fireplace so I said was there
president's blood in your home knowing
that it couldn't possibly be and then he
acknowledged that that could not have
been the reason but he could not
remember why he had burned the original
version and said nothing to anybody
about that the autopsy photos that are
in the National Archives do not show a
large massive exit wound in the
occipital parietal area see I can't say
it without touching the back of my head
I've tried and just I can't do it
there's no massive wound in the
occipital parietal area that's visible
on the photos so one of the questions is
were these photos doctored or the photos
accurate or the doctors in Parkland
Hospital correct or incorrect so all of
these questions came up we were able
that the agency that I worked for we
were able to find the person who
developed the original autopsy photo so
her names were on the records and we
found her name was Sandra Spencer
so we located her and we brought her to
Washington so what she did was she
developed the film's so these were
slides there are black and white slides
and color slides these are large format
so a large print so these are not your
35 millimeter prints but these are large
prints so she develops the color
transparencies black and white
transparencies and then she printed from
the transparencies on to Kodak paper I
asked her if she had any prints that she
had made at the same time that she
developed the autopsy photos and printed
the autopsy photos and she said yes
because she was she did the
the the developing work for the White
House and she had pictures of President
Kennedy that had been taken a couple of
days earlier that she kept as a souvenir
so I said bring those with you because
in theory the paper that was in the
National Archives that the photographs
are printed on should be exactly the
same as what she had so she came to the
National Archives she looked at the
autopsy photos the color transparencies
the black and white transparencies and
she said these are not the photographs
that I developed myself and I said well
could you describe what is different
about these and she said yes she said
that the photographs that she developed
had a large exit massive exit wound in
the back of the head so what she said
she developed was exactly the same as
what the doctors in Parkland Hospital
had seen consistent once again with a
shot from the front not from behind we
then compared the paper of the
photographs that she had developed and
the paper and the National Archives is
not the paper the photo of the the polar
or the codec sorry about that mistake
not the Kodak paper that she had and she
said these are not these are not the
ones that I did she said I don't know
where they came from but these are not
mine so I asked her if she had had any
experience with autopsies before I
thought presumably she had not and she
may not know what she's been seeing we
want to do comprehensive not jump to
conclusions and so I was expecting her
to say no she'd done photographs of
President Kennedy but not autopsy and
she said oh yes before I went to work at
the naval lab in Anacostia I was an
autopsy photographer myself and so she
was very familiar with that so we have a
few questions there now none of this
says that we know what the answers to
those questions are but we do have some
questions with this you mentioned that
the person who took the photographs that
you interviewed and
photographs they're developed who
developed the photographs did you ever
find or were you ever able to find which
the photographs that she developed no no
we pursued this here's one of the one of
the questions so there's no massive head
when we got the original photograph
those that are in the archives through
the the good graces of Kodak we went to
Rochester New York that was one time I
felt very special I was whisked through
all the security and airports and taken
on separate vans I thought I was a VIP
we won on the plane first and we have
FBI agents there who are guarding the
autopsy photos we digitized them we did
not Kodak did blew them up so we could
look at these images and by my
non-expert eye the photographs have not
been doctored retouched the question
ends up being whether when those
photographs were taken and two
possibilities one is before the autopsy
which is what all of the official
records says the the photographs were
taken before the autopsy began or after
the autopsy
after the body had been reconstructed so
gaolers mortuary reconstructed the body
observers and this is in William
Manchester this is the first time I read
about it William Manchester's death of a
president that said that the body was so
well done you could not tell that he had
been shot so very good reconstruction at
the mortuary where the photos taken
afterwards and so that after this wound
is covered up knowing that this is a
possibility when I interviewed the
doctors I asked them was the body
cleaned in any way before the
photographs were taken and they all said
no what they described as being very
messy blood brain tissue blood matted
when you look at the photographs of the
back of the head it's all clean and
neatly combed so before or afterwards
and you know I can't prove any of this
but all of me for me the frustrating
thing is the Warren Commission could
have done this and the Warren Commission
did not do it 30 years later you can
wonder about this but you can't really
get that but conceivably Sandra
spencer developed photographs from the
firt from the autopsy or from the
photographs taken before the autopsy and
not those that are taken later and she
sees the ones taken later in the
National Archives now
that the evidence seems to point in that
direction but that's also a fair amount
of speculation I can't say I'm really
confident that happened as but I suspect
that happened and it would be nice to
know but I'm not expecting to find out
if sometime we end up finding additional
autopsy photographs that show that then
we will maybe know the ones that saundra
Spencer develop she has she has since
died the the autopsy that was performed
in Bethesda Naval Hospital was a
disgrace it it was a disgrace
when I when I took the deposition I
asked dr. Humes what the standard was
that he used for the autopsy
he said no there was some manual that
had been created by the Navy that set up
the standards I said is that the one
that you followed and he said yes and I
then pulled out a copy of it which I had
and handed and I said is this the one
that you followed and he didn't say
anything he said yet he answered yes to
that but I could tell I mean from my
perspective he thought this is going to
be a very bad day and we then went
through this and he just simply didn't
follow the procedures